For too long we have seen the greed of the few take precedence over the needs of the many. We have watched politicians make careers in Congress that span far too much time. Some, we know, have kept their positions through gerrymandering of home districts, thus removing the power of many people's votes. It is time for this to end. Many years ago, Congress placed term limits of the Office of the President (cite data). It is long past due for the same to apply to both houses of the Congress.

We have watched two political parties become ideological monoliths, set in their ways, and through their sheer dominance of the political landscape, they leave little room for other viewpoints. One viewpoint, that neither is listening to, is the call of the people to end all wars. Of course they don't listen. They get massive party support from the very industries that build, and sell, the weapons of war that destroy families and homes throughout the world.  At my age, I have spent most of my life seeing the USA involved in one war or another. Some of our children have never lived under a peacetime government. Meanwhile, these same industries, while profiting obscenely from death and destruction, often pay little to no tax revenue into the system. Yet more than half of the annual budget goes to the military and military hardware; the very things from which these industries make their wealth. 

Over the years, we have watched as our government, ever more under corporate control, parleyed an instance of nearly universal sympathy and support by the world's countries  – after the horrible events of 9/11 -  into almost universal mistrust and hatred. We've seen our daughters and sons sent away to fight wars to line the pockets of war-profiteers. Yet, when they return, they find our so-called government no longer cares about them. Presidents and Generals wage endless war, then disrespect the flesh-and-blood people who do the actual fighting; cutting funding for the VA and other services our returning troops need.  

And not just the troops need good healthcare. There is a disaster happening that our so-called leaders – who are supposed to be our representatives – refuse to sanely consider. That is Universal Healthcare. Obamacare was just a sop to Big Insurance. Universal Healthcare, paid for by our normal taxes, needs to be instituted immediately. 

We, as a society – and ultimately as a species – must shift away from War as a solution for anything and everything. War tends to have two major causes – racism and resources. Either one culture has hatred for another or they want the resources another culture possesses. Often the two coincide. Nor is it solely an external thing. There are significant factions within society and the government that hate anyone different. We have seen a recent upswing in overt racism, including racist graffiti, arson and even murders. We have seen immigrants become the target du jour. Not just those stopped at the borders are oppressed, but also those who have become naturalized citizens. Recently, even adults who were born in America, but born to immigrant parents, have been accused of having fake birth certificates. There is an active push to demonize immigrants and asylum-seekers for false reasons; reasons repeatedly debunked by law enforcement themselves. 

This carries over into many other areas as well. The most vulnerable of our people – the disabled, the LGBTQ community, women, minorities of various stripes – are finding not only physical attacks, but economic and political attacks, are on the upswing. How a society cares for its most vulnerable members is the true sign of how good a society is. Right now there are people serving in Congress whose stated goals are to repeal and remove the many hard-won protections put in place over the years.   These are not people who care about society as a whole. 

Finally, there are misconceptions about Freedom of Speech. I express my views with my Free Speech. Another would contradict or rebut me with their Free Speech. If they feel strongly enough, they might boycott my business ventures; and this too, is Free Speech – voting with one's wallet.  

However, there is a great difference between Free Speech and Incitement to Commit Genocide. The USA is a signatory to the Treaty on Genocide, and according to Article Two of the Constitution, Section II; duly ratified treaties are the Supreme Law of the Land. This means that if one's stated purpose or ideology calls for harming, or enslaving, or destroying another people and their culture, it is no longer Free Speech, it is an incitement of genocide. There are significant factions whose self-avowed ideologies call for the harming other ethnic or racial groups. That fits the definition of genocide; which is illegal not solely in American law, but in International Law as well. 

So I propose a call to action. First, we need to do a fairly clean sweep of the Congress. It is time for the old “career” politicians to be removed from power. We need democracy, not a plutocracy. New blood, with progressive, solution-oriented ideas must be brought into the Capitol Building in DC. Representatives, not so-called “leaders,”  need to be in Washington. The Electoral College needs to end. Let our Presidents, Representatives and Senators be elected by the popular, and preferably ranked, vote of the people – no shenanigans. 

My name is Laura S Potter, and I am the Liberty Union Party candidate for the US Representative from Vermont. America's true greatness has always been its' diversity and creativity, and I am staunchly against any faction or ideology that seeks to limit that. We need to wrest the power away from the privileged few, and return it to the commonwealth – to the vast sea of people who make up the United States of America. Let's turn Congress to Progress !




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Term Limits for all politicians

End Current Wars; Prevent future wars

Abolish ICE and Border Patrol as they are now. 
Demilitarize Police

Transparency in all parts of govt

If law affects poor, it needs to affect rich equally. A fine can be pocket-change to a wealthy person, yet devastate a poor one.

Make oversea out-sourcing expensive – tax the rich corporations that do it.

Medicare for All/Socialized Medicine

Democracy not bad. Socialism not bad. Capitalism IS bad.

Disability advocacy and rights enforcement


