Campaign statement of Marina Brown, Liberty Union candidate for Vermont 
Auditor of Accounts.

News Release — Marina Brown
Aug. 28, 2018

Contact:
Marina Brown
catskillmarina@gmail.com

Campaign Statement of Marina Brown, 
Liberty Union Candidate for Vermont Auditor of Accounts.

The office of auditor is ostensibly non-partisan. The office of the auditor
performs 3 types of audits. From the website for the office of the
auditor we see this description of the audits performed by the office of the
auditor: "Performance audits, the State’s financial statement audit (CAFR) 
and the State’s single audit (which looks at the usage of federal funds by 
the state)". I would add one more type of audit, a transparency audit that
would focus on turning Vermont from a state with very poor transparency to
a state where government business can be accessed on standardized portals for
every agency. The guidline for the work i would like to do would be transparency
for the government and privacy for the individual.

* Privacy for Individuals and transparency for Government. There should be
transparency of all publically funded agencies and institutions including, but
not limited to, hospitals, nursing homes and schools. These institutions should
prominently post both physically and on-the-internet important information 
including CEO compensation, infection rate, graduation and dropout rates etc.
They should offer free access to all non-personal records. The burden of 
enforcement of Public Records requests rests on the state.

* I am in favor of removing most of the exceptions listed in the public records
law. It is in the public's interest to know what type of software is used to 
store private information. It is in the public interest because the people need 
to know the security that protects private information. It is in the public 
interest to know how expensive the software products are.

* My office will push that the state use open source software wherever 
possible. Open Source software tends to be more secure than proprietary software
and it is free to obtain for the most part.  The State of VT should endeavor to 
use Open Source Software wherever it is reasonably possible and contribute 
changes back to the software project for the greater social good.

* I will push that the state properly release improvements made on open source
software for the greater public good.

* I will use technology in the service of transparency. I will use software
like securedrop or globaleaks to ensure that people feel safe reporting 
corruption, waste and other serious problems in government and with government officials.

* I will create a central portal or website for the public to access 
information released in the service of transparency.

* My office will aggressively defend individual privacy including people
who want to opt out of shared medical databases.

* Because the electronic health care record system is a risk for privacy, and 
also because it compromises the doctor/patient relationship, patients and 
doctors should have the right to opt-out of the digital health care record 
system.

* The state must reveal all funding, services and equipment recieved from the 
Federal government, foreign governments and private individuals or corporations.
