LIBERTY UNION PARTY PLATFORM
(Adopted by Consensus, 1978; Amended and to be Ratified by Consensus 2017)

Introduction:
Liberty Union is a non-violent socialist party, founded in the state of Vermont 
in 1970. We offer a slate of candidates for all statewide offices in all general
elections. We affirm this platform as a socialist platform operating within a 
capitalist economy. 


1. Government ought to move in the direction of assuring that the wealth and 
resources of the world will be used to provide a materially secure life for all 
people on the planet— including opportunities for universal health care, quality
child care, and education from birth to death—simultaneously preserving the 
planet and its resources for future generations.

2. Democracy should exist at all times in all the processes of society.

3. Everyone should have the right of choice and privacy, free from government 
interference, as long as these choices do not negatively infringe upon or cause 
personal harm to others.

4. Everyone should have socially productive and personally satisfying work 
available and a universal basic income (UBI) generating a real sense of 
security. 

5. Everyone is entitled to a fair rate of return for their labor and that rate of return should be the same for everyone.

6. All genders should be treated with respect and dignity having equal rights and sharing equal responsibilities.

7. Senior citizens are valuable and important members of society and should 
have the right to meaningful participation in society, free from economic 
deprivation.

8. Nuclear power is intolerably and incurably unsafe. We oppose the existence 
and construction of nuclear power plants. It is imperative that all nuclear 
power plants be decommissioned immediately in the least hazardous manner, with 
environmentally responsible clean-up of all nuclear waste and all resulting 
costs borne by the investors. We further demand that research, production, 
testing, deployment and sale of ALL weapons including nuclear, depleted uranium,
biological, chemical and reactor waste immediately cease. We demand a universal conversion to alternative renewable energy sources.

9. It is wrong for any country to take advantage of the labor and resources of 
any other country.
     
10. Utilities, communication services—internet and phone, and transportation 
services, are necessities which must be available and affordable to all.

11. The following “Declaration of Independence from Government Dictation of 
Conscience” is an historic document of the Liberty Union Party. It was written 
in the throes of the “American War in Vietnam,” during the era of the so-called 
Cold War with the (then) Soviet Union. The language reflects this context.

Today we are deep into the time of the “worse wars” that we predicted would 
come. We remain committed to bearing witness against all wars and to speaking 
out for peace.

Therefore, we call for TOTAL UNILATERAL DISARMAMENT on the part of the United 
States, regardless of what any other nation may do.

Declaration of Independence from Government Dictation of CONSCIENCE 

We must raise the standard of WORLD-WIDE human love and SOLIDARITY.

WE MUST REFUSE to burn and kill each other NO MATTER WHO “orders” us to, 
or under whatever pretext.

WE must REJECT the situation ethics and moral relativism which claims that
 “the end justifies the means,” 
and that “we must kill them before they can kill us.”

THIS SELF-RIGHTEOUS, SELF-SERVING rationalization and nationalization of 
conscience in NO way cancels our RESPONSIBILITY to REFUSE to be used or 
co-opted by any of the bloody wars or empires.

Worse wars will come, apparently. But WE must bear witness against them, and 
against war preparations, which are part of the wars.

We cannot do everything—especially in view of our individual limitations.
But we CAN and MUST SPEAK OUT for peace and NON-VIOLENCE—NOW.

A war to end war is a snare and a delusion—like our destroying a village in 
order to save it.  There is no way to peace—PEACE IS THE WAY.

Even our gun-shooting fore-bears, for the support of THEIR Declaration of 
Independence, said we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes and 
our sacred honor.

DARE WE DO LESS THAN THIS?
  

12. All prisons should be replaced by humane rehabilitation facilities.

13. All national, political and economic borders should be open.

14. No person should be defined as illegal. We categorically oppose the 
identification, harassment, arrest and deportation of any so called immigrant, 
regardless of documentation status.

15. All people must have the right to express opinions, ideas and dissent 
through all forms of non-violent assembly and protest, not confined to 
“free-speech zones, and this right must be insured and protected by government. 

16. We oppose fascism. We assert that a conspiracy to commit genocide, ethnic 
cleansing, torture, wars of aggression or to deny human rights to groups of 
people is criminal. Creating a theoretical framework to commit genocide, 
torture, ethnic cleansing, wars of aggression or to deny human rights is also 
a criminal act. 

17. We seek to dismantle the racism and white supremacy upon which our country 
and other imperialist countries were built. We recognize the enduring legacy of 
racism which continues to disadvantage people of color in the US and Vermont and
seek to negate it's effect in Vermont, the US, our own institutions and 
ourselves.

The platform is a work in progress. It is maintained at github at the following
address: https://github.com/catskillmarina/libertyunionparty

